# Education-Inequality-Analysis
Introduction 
This project seeks to find whether and how socioeconomic factors—such as household income, unemployment, adult educational attainment, and family structure—affect U.S. high school performances on the ACT or SAT exams. School average scores in these exams will be modeled against different socioeconomic factors. The primary goal of the project is to use the socioeconomic factors to explain school average ACT or SAT scores by performing exploratory and predictive analysis that will give insights on; Whether socioeconomic factors can predict U.S. high school performances on the ACT or SAT exams How the different socioeconomic factors affect U.S. high school performances on the ACT or SAT exams Which socioeconomic factors best explains U.S. high school performances on the ACT or SAT exams

Data Used
The EdGap primary data set used for this project is from EdGap.org, “a platform for maps, visualizations, and encouraging discussion on the education gap in the United States.” This data set from 2016 includes information about average ACT or SAT scores for schools and several socioeconomic characteristics of the school district. The secondary data set obtained from National Center for Education Statistics (NCES) constitutes essential information about each school. NCES is “the primary federal entity for collecting and analyzing data related to education.”

EdGap data
All socioeconomic data (household income, unemployment, adult educational attainment, and family structure) is from the Census Bureau’s American Community Survey. EdGap.org reports that ACT and SAT score data is from each state’s education department or some other public data release. The nature of the other public data release is not known. EdGap.org does not indicate that they processed the data in any way. The EdGap.org team assembled the data, so there is always the possibility for human error. Given the public nature of the data, we would be able to consult the original data sources to check the quality of the data if we had any questions.

School information data
This data set consists of basic identifying information about schools and can be assumed to be reasonably high. As for the EdGap.org data, the school information data is public, so we would be able to consult the original data sources to check the quality of the data if we had any questions.   Analysis Methods/Techniques The analysis of the data used in the project involved three fundamental steps. Exploratory Analysis Predictive Analysis Model Selection
